Love All, Serve All.
The smile on the face is the blooming of the joy that fills the heart; it wafts away discontent and depression from other faces.
The more man discovers the secrets and mysteries of the cosmos, the more he will realise that God is the creator and motivator of all creation.
No one has the right to advise others unless he is already practising what he preaches.
God is ignored in sunshine. He is wanted only when there is no light.
Do not damage your future by pursuing temporary benefits and selfish aggrandizement. Yearn for and earn good friends, who will keep you on an even keel.
God values your feelings and not your physical performances.
Men should go away from the worldly path like the fish which swim against the current in a river. That is the way to realise the Divine. If you allow yourself to be carried away by the worldly current, you can only meet with a sad end. Whatever the world may think, keep your eye on the spiritual goal. When people ask for liberation, they should understand that liberation means oneness with the Divine. Become aware of your divinity. Then worldly thoughts will not enter your mind.
Do not wag or argue just for the sake of argument. Let your words be few, fair, and felicitous. Soft speech adds sweetness to living. Even when you are engaged in discussion amongst yourselves, be short of speech and polite in behavior.
Wealth has to be held in trust for activities that are beneficial, for promoting righteous living and for fulfilling one's duties to Society.
The Spirit is invisible like the roots of a tree. But it is the basis of real bliss, just as the fruits of a tree are derived from the roots.
Everyone should aim at excellence in the performance of one's duties. Then the nation will be prosperous and happy. Today very few discharge their duties properly. Instead of doing their work, they interfere in other people's work. They fail to do their work and spoil that of others.
There is no greater teacher than your heart. Time is a great preacher. The world is a scriptural text. God is the great friend.
The dull and the inert will hesitate to be active, for fear of exhaustion or failure or loss. The emotional, passionate individuals mill plunge headlong and crave for quick results anal will be disappointed if they do not come in. The balanced persons will be active, because it is their duty; they will not be agitated by anything failure or success. The godly will take up activity as a means of worshipping God and they leave the results to God. They know that they are but instruments in the hands of God.
The difference between a dream in sleep and what happens in the waking state relates mainly to the time factor. In a dream in a sleep, a person may go through the entire experiences of his life from childhood to old age in a few minutes. The dream compresses the experiences of many years within so many minutes. Likewise what happens over many years in the waking state may appear as a few moments in spiritual experience.
Only if you do your duties at home properly will you be able to render proper service outside. In whatever work you do at home, whether sweeping the floor or making a dinner, convert it into a form of spiritual exercise.
One who is bereft of desires is peaceful.
When you want to achieve something, you must have the determination and persistence to secure it by all your efforts. No room should be given for doubts and hesitations. There is nothing on earth which cannot be achieved with firm determination.
The body, the senses, the mind and the intellect are all your instruments. You are their master. Master the mind and be a Master.
Men must develop firm faith in the Divinity within them. All that is needed is to turn the vision inwards to experience the Divine within.
Your attitude to God should not be based on the fulfilment or non-fulfilment of petty desires.  You must feel that whatever happens to you is for your own good. You must have the firm belief that whether your wishes are fulfilled or not, nothing harmful will happen to you. Be firm in your faith in weal and woe. Develop an optimistic attitude towards life.
Purity, patience and perseverance are the requisites for accomplishing anything.
Whatever is dedicated and offered to God can never be lost. People can gain enormous benefit by offering even a little to God.
The primary aim should be to become Masters of yourselves, to hold intimate and constant communion with the Divine that is in you as well as in the Universe of which you are a part.
Realise that sweetness is within you. Turn your intellect inwards and discover that sweetness by filling the intellect with love.
A man without self-satisfaction can have no peace.
Let God work through you, and there will be no more duty.
Use your time, as if it is something very precious. It is really the most precious Gift of God. It is fast running out; every moment lost is lost for ever.
An unhealthy expansion of education is as undesirable as an unhealthy bloating of the body. Acquiring degrees at great cost and developing contempt for one's parents out of intellectual pride is not a sign of proper education. Humility is the hall-mark of true education. Arrogance, envy and ostentation should have no place in a properly educated person.
Have faith in the Divine and one can experience the Divine. Have faith in oneself and one can have faith in the Divine.
All social conflicts will end when people learn to see the one Divine in all beings.
Every object in nature, every incident in time, is really speaking, teaching you a lesson.
Let all your activities be directed towards the purification of your hearts.
What the mind (head) thinks, should be examined critically by the heart and the right decision should be carried out by the hand.
If the eye does not help you to visualise God in everything it sees, it is far better to be blind.
There is no need to wait for a new year to bring new tidings. Every moment is new. Many are wondering what troubles and losses the new year will bring. For all our troubles and difficulties the year is not responsible. Our conduct alone is responsible. If our actions are good the results will be good. Bad actions will lead to bad consequences. People think that good and bad are related to bad time. Not at all. Their thoughts are the cause. Hence, they should develop good thoughts and do good deeds.
When a strong wind blows, the clouds are dispelled and the sun is visible. Similarly, when the winds of love and faith blow, the clouds of doubt and egoism are scattered and God reveals Himself.
Do not place your needs first, your joy first. Consider the need of others, the Bliss of others, as even more important. Respect elders and cultivate cordiality between brothers and sisters, teachers and students, employers and employees etc.
Money can purchase drugs but mental peace and content alone can guarantee health.
Morality and integrity are based upon spiritual consciousness. Spirituality alone will take man to the sacred path leading to his destiny. Spirituality alone can elevate man and raise him to higher levels. It is the means to real national progress and prosperity. World peace can be secured only through spirituality. It is the means for the redemption of mankind.
You should welcome tests and difficulties. By overcoming them your divinity is revealed.
Regard every second as a new year and act on that basis. You need not wait for the passing of twelve months to embark on any enterprise. Transform yourselves every moment. Get rid of the bad old ideas; that will herald the birth of the new year.
God belongs to all. He is Universal. All of you have to give up differences of every kind and give no room for narrow parochial and national loyalties. Consider yourselves as the children of one God. You may worship God in any form of your choice, but recognise the truth that God is only one. The observance of holy days like Christmas is an occasion for realising the importance of love and harmony among all human beings.
Embodiments of love! Whatever situation you may confront, never give room for religious differences. Whether it is Allah or Krishna or Jesus, God is one. The one Lord has a myriad names.
Ignore the temporary and trivial Name and Form of the embodiment of the Divine spirit; then, all distinctions of worm and wolf, of atom and avathaar, disappear and the knowledge that basic Truth is One is realised.
It is essential to see the unity that underlies the apparent diversity. When more and more people recognise this unity most of the world's problems will get solved. All social confliers will end when people learn to see the one Divine in all beings. It is the hatred born of divisive feelings which is the cause of deadly discord in society.
What you get from society, give it back to society. That is the primary value to be cherished by every one.
Those who practise Dharma and speak the Truth always in course of time become Divine. They merge in the Divine like the river merging with the ocean. Truth and Righteousness are at the root of human existence. No one should think it is difficult to adhere to truth. In fact it is easier to speak the truth while it needs a lot of cleverness to tell an untruth and sustain it.
It is grief that makes joy worth while, a precious possession; it is the pitch-dark night that prompts the seeker of light; it is death, that lends zest to life.
Utilise every moment of your lives in the most beneficial manner; to serve your fellowmen to the best of your capacity; to cultivate love towards all mankind; to give up hate and malice. Believe that your God, the Form that you revere, is in everyone and sanctify every act as worship of that Form.
Doubtless there is need for having material comforts, but, along with these, only if we preserve our spiritual and cultural treasures will we be able to stand out as an ideal to the world.
You must do your sadhana and go ahead. God's help will come when you do your part. Do your duty and leave the results to God. Praying to God to do this or that is a sign of weakness.
Permanent happiness can be got only by performing your duties. First do your duty and then enjoy the fruits. Today people do nor discharge their duties but wish to enjoy the fruits thereof. This cannot give them happiness. Everyone should realise that he is born to discharge various obligations and not to enjoy rewards for unrendered services.  Man should realise that he has no claim to rights. His role is to carry our his duties. When he performs his duties, he will reap the rewards in due course. People today do not discharge their duties but fight for their rights.
A bar of iron sinks in water; but beat it into a hollow vessel and it will float merrily and even carry some weight. So too, man's mind sinks easily in the sea of sense; beat it hollow, hammering it with the Name of the Lord. It will float, safely, on a sea of troubles.
He who has greatest satisfaction in life is the richest man. He who has much desires is the poorest man. To be free from all desires is the mark of greatness.
All religions teach one basic discipline; the removal from the mind of the blemish of egoism, of running after little joys. Every religion teaches man to fill his being with the glory of God and evict the pettiness of conceit.
Three things are most essential today: Morality in business, politics with principle and education with character.
One who is immersed in the ocean of Divine love will have no words to express its greatness and sweetness. He will speak in the language of silence. He will keep away from idle talk or debate. Those who experience the bliss of Divine love will be filled with an inner joy, whatever the external troubles they may encounter.
Birth and death are incidental to the body alone. Your Self has neither birth nor death. What is born (the body) dies. Death relates to the body and not to the Aathma. The Aathma is eternal. It is the truth. You have to acquire this awareness to experience lasting bliss. To experience permanent bliss one has to develop firm faith in God.
You should try to have complete knowledge of anything. Partial knowledge is dangerous.
Soft speech reaches the heart quicker and deeper. Reveal in gentle words the reason why you do not allow certain things to be done or you require certain other things to be done.  Win the willing co-operation of people, not their resentful acquiescence.
Karma is the cause of births, the jeevi (soul) being compelled to undergo another ordeal of for clearing its accounts and becoming free of both credit and debit.
It is unfortunate that the vast majority of mankind lead mundane lives forgetting God. Make God the foundation of your life. Carry on your normal duties. Duty is God. Work is worship.  Spiritualise all your actions and treat whatever happens as actions for your good. Learn to experience perennial bliss by seeking union with God. Never forget God. Do not go after the things of the world. Have no fear of death. When your life is tooted in these three maxims, you will attain Bliss.
To enable your prayers to reach God you have to affix the stamp of 'faith' and address it with 'love' If you have faith and love, your prayers will reach God regardless of distance.
The body is the temple of God; in every body, God is installed, whether the owner of the body recognises it or not. It is God that inspires you to good acts, that warns you against the bad. Listen to that Voice. Obey that Voice and you will not come to any harm.
You must realise that whatever scriptures one may master or whatever power and wealth one many acquire, without love one cannot achieve liberation. All of you are looking at the external world. Turn your vision inward. The external vision is useless. It is when you look inward that you will recognise your true form.
Regard every moment as new. Live in the present. Have good thoughts and do good deeds. Cultivate good company. Act according to the dictates of your conscience. The secret of happiness lies within you, not outside.
It is sheer effrontery and foolishness to make pronouncements on the nature and work of God. When Divinity is immanent in everything, conscious and unconscious, in every form of being and becoming, how can a thing be condemned as bad or commended as good?
Love for the Lord should not degenerate into fanaticism and hatred of other names and forms.
Plant the seed of love in your pure hearts. From that tree of love you will have the fruits of forbearance, compassion and kindness. Always be smiling. Face every situation in life, including death, with a smile.
Keep a strict watch over what you say. If the foot slips, you may suffer from a fall and sustain a temporary injury. But a slip of the tongue may cause lasting harm.
Serve others gladly; do not serve with an air of superiority or the sour face of disgust. Let people know that you are genuinely glad at the chance to help.
Whatever the method of worship, whichever the Name or Form, it is Faith that matters; it is that which gives life and energy for higher things.
There can be no religion without moral purity. The two are inter dependent.
Expansion is Love, is life. Contraction is Death, is hate. Pray for the good of all, crave for the prosperity of all, not of one person or party, or nation.
Time is invaluable; do not waste even half a minute. The hours that have passed cannot return; the Wheel of Time will not halt for any person. So, examine your thoughts, words and deeds and find out whether spending precious time on them is worth while or not.
Man feels that riches are paramount, but what he fancies as wealth are but material, momentary, trivial things. Character, virtue, brotherhood, charity - these are the real riches. The company of the good and godly is wealth most worthy. Wisdom is the most precious wealth. The educated person must live with this conviction. Search for mere riches can never confer contentment and peace of mind.
The company in which food is consumed, the place, the vessels in which it is cooked, the emotions that agitate the mind of the person who cooks it and serves it - all these have subtle influences on the nature and emotions of the person who takes the final product in!
Always remember that the book is only a pointer, a guide, a signpost. Reading is not completion of the journey. It is only the first step. Read for the sake of practicing; not for reading's sake.
It is natural for every being to seek happiness. Yet, each being must know that happiness does not emanate from the material things of the objective world.
Experience of the Divine must be sought in the company of good people. It is an illusion to imagine that you can see God in some temple or shrine or in some kind of mediation. Only in the Divine manifesting in human form can you experience the Divine. If one cannot experience the Divine, in a living human being, how can one experience it in an inanimate stone?
When you pull out all the yarn from a piece of cloth, you have no more cloth. So too, pull out desires from the mind; it disappears, and you are free. Grief and Joy are the obverse and reverse of the same experience. Joy is when grief ends; grief is when joy ends.
Your self must achieve confidence. Then, that self confidence will lead to self sacrifice and self realization.
It is the meaning that is important, the feelings you express, the behavior you adopt, the language of the heart is expressed through sympathy, kindness, service, love, brotherliness. That is the language that really matters; that language can be understood by every one.
Never accept anything 'free' from others, pay it back, in service or work. That will make you self respecting individuals. Receiving a favour means getting bound to the giver.
Correct your vision; the world will get corrected. Reform yourselves; the world will get reformed. You create the world of your choice.
Contribute to the expansion of love, the purification of motives, the enlargement of sympathy, the tolerance of difference, the respect for individual striving.
There is no more heinous sin than hurting the feelings of others.
God is everywhere, He is everything; so, it appears as if He is nowhere, and He is not in anything!
Every one of you is a temple, with the Lord installed in your heart, whether you are aware of it or not.
Happiness and peace do not follow when man is fed well, clothed well, housed well and even educated up to a high standard and employed under comfortable conditions, with no injury to health or security. There are many who have all these in plenty but who are yet worried or in pain or discontented. They depend on the inner equipment of man, not on his outer skill or riches.
If anyone blames, abuses, or hurts you, do not return him with the same. Behave nobly and with patience. When a dog bites a man, the man does not bite the dog in return.
Just as rain falling in various parts of the world flows through a thousand channels and reaches the ocean at last, so too, creeds, rituals, religions and theologies, all derived from man's yearning for the vast inscrutable beyond, flow in a thousand different forms, fertilizing many fields, cooling many communities, refreshing tired peoples in many ways and at last reach the Ocean of Bliss.
Man is not merely a creature thrown up by nature in the process of an evolutionary gamble. He has a special meaning, a special mission, a unique role. He is Divinity, encased in the human frame!
A life without love is meaningless. The more you love, the more it grows. True love should be distinguished from attachment either to persons or things. Attachment is based on selfishness. Love is based on selflessness. Love is the fruit which is born from the flower of your good deeds. Only when we engage ourselves in selfless service can we experience the essence of this pure love.
Have constructive thoughts, consoling words, compassionate acts. Be on the lookout for eyes filled with tears, hearts heaving in sigh.
Let every second be a chance to entertain a new thought, a deeper love, a broader heart.
Be convinced that God can and will appear in any form and so all forms are His. Don't refuse to recognize Divinity in the form you dislike or did not expect! He can appear as a fox, as a dog, as a beggar, any Form. When you call on God, whatever Form appears, treat it as God.
Believe that God resides in all beings; speak such words as would spread goodness, truth and beauty; do such acts as would promote the happiness and prosperity of all; pray that all worlds have Peace. Expand yourselves; do not contract into your own tiny individuality. Expand into Universal Love, unshaken equanimity, and ever - active virtue. That is the Path which will bring out the Divinity in you to the fullest.
You aspire for good results, but are you performing good deeds? You expect others to be good towards you, but are you good towards them? If you act against the dictates of your conscience, how can you expect to be happy? Your deeds should be in accordance with your aspirations. Good deeds will certainly yield good results.
If you speak harshly to another, he too talks loud and harsh; angry words cause more angry words. But, if you use soft and sweet words when another is angry towards you, he will calm down, he will be sorry that he used his tongue in that way. Do not shout, do not talk longer than necessary, do not talk when there is no need to talk; when you speak to some one or some group of friends, raise your voice to the pitch that is just right for the listener or listeners and not more. Why should you waste your energy to talk louder and longer than necessary ?
More things, more hurdles, more handicaps. Accumulation of sofas and chairs, cots and tables, shelves and curios clutter the hall and render movements slow and risky. Reduce wants, live simply, that is the way to happiness.
Place before others your doubts, and try to get them resolved. Spend your time in the company of others, not in gossip but in fruitful discussion.
Take the lamp to the place where the darkness is. Joy and grief are not brought about by others, they are emanations from within you. So, cure yourself, do not try to put the blame on others and start plans to cure them.
Control the mind and you remain unruffled. That is the secret of Peace.
Love is the bridge which helps passage from birth to deathlessness, from death to birthlessness.
Always respect another's opinion and another's point of view. Do not start a quarrel at the slightest difference of opinion. He may be right and you may be wrong. Ponder over his argument; he might have had the advantage of knowing more about the subject or you may be prejudiced either for or against; or he may not know as much as you.
You must not only love others, but you must be so good that others too may love you.
                                                      -- Sri Satya Sai Baba